.. _platform_specifics:

Platform specifics
==================

This chapter contains information about specifics of standard platforms.

Build
-----

Linux
~~~~~~~

A toolchain must be provided to 3S, to be able to build the runtime.

VxWorks
~~~~~~~

VxWorks runtime is delivered as a binary in several configurations, e.g.
floating point support, PCI support, and interrupt support. The
toolchain supported is GNU.

CANopen
-------

To support CANopen fieldbus stack and communication, a CANMini driver is
needed. On some platform, this driver is already available. In case a
standard driver is not available for a platform, it has to be developed.


Linux
~~~~~

A driver based on SocketCAN is included in the runtime toolkit.

The SocketCAN driver must be installed and tested by the OEM.

Windows CE
~~~~~~~~~~

A driver for SJA1000 controllers is available, the driver works with
several PCI cards (Peak, Automata, … ) or can be configured through the
settings file for systems without PCI.


VxWorks
~~~~~~~

No standard driver available.

QNX
~~~

No standard driver available.

RTE
~~~

A driver for SJA1000 controllers is available, the driver works with
several PCI cards (Peak, Automata, …) or can be configured through the
settings file for systems without PCI.

For cards currently not supported, please contact 3S.

EtherCAT
--------

To support the EtherCAT fieldbus stack, an Ethernet driver is needed. On
some platforms, this driver is already available:

Linux, QNX
~~~~~~~~~~

No specific requirements.


Windows CE
~~~~~~~~~~

| An NDIS based component for handling Ethernet frames is included with
  the runtime system.
| It is possible to replace this solution by a customer-specific driver
  with direct access to the Ethernet controller, to achieve better
  realtime behavior.

For SoftMotion applications, the OEM has to extend the CE kernel by a
microsecond timer (without this timer, EtherCAT distributed clocks and
the entire SoftMotion cannot work).


VxWorks
~~~~~~~

No specific requirements.


RTE
~~~

Drivers for some cards (RTL8139, 8169, and compatible, and all Intel
PRO100, PRO1000 based cards) are available.

Target Visualization
--------------------

Linux, QNX
~~~~~~~~~~
          
Qt Version 4 is required. These directories of the configured Qt
installation have to be supplied to 3S:

   - bin

   - include

   - lib


Windows CE
~~~~~~~~~~

The CODESYS targetvisu uses the native GDI of Windows CE.

Some features are not supported by the standard GDI, so they are only
supported if the specific CE system provides additional functionality.
This concerns ActiveX Controls, pictures in PNG format and gradient
coloring.


VxWorks
~~~~~~~

Frame buffer solution available. Adaptation by OEM required.


RTE
~~~

No specific requirements.

Web visualization
-----------------

The runtime contains a web server so that a Web client on a remote
system like a PC or any other device with a browser supporting HTML5 can
display the web visualization.


Linux, QNX
~~~~~~~~~~

No specific requirements.


Windows CE
~~~~~~~~~~

A different use case concerns Windows CE systems which should display
the web visualization themselves!! In this case, the CE system cannot
use the standard browser because of missing HTML5 support. The OEM has
to include a HMTL5 browser in his system, e.g. web kit.


VxWorks
~~~~~~~

No specific requirements.


RTE
~~~

No specific requirements.