.. _comm_topology:

Network Topology and Addressing
-------------------------------

The aim is to create a system that largely configures itself (address
assignment), transparently supports any communication media, and can
route packets between different networks. The routing mechanism should
be simple enough such that any node in the network, i.e. even nodes with
low resources, can reroute packets. In particularly this means that
large routing tables, complex calculations, or requests at runtime
should be avoided.

Topology
~~~~~~~~

A control network should generally be configured hierarchically, i.e.
each node has one parent node and any number of children. Cycles are not
permitted, i.e. a control network has a tree structure.

Parent-child relationships arise from the specification of network
segments. A network segment corresponds to a local Ethernet or a serial
point-to-point connection, for example. A distinction is made between
the main network (**main net**) and the sub-networks (**subnet**). Each
node may have several main nets as well as each main net may have
several subnets. Each main net acts as a parent for the attached
subnets.

If the same network segment was simultaneously defined as a subnet of
several nodes, the network would have several parents. This is an
invalid configuration, since each network segment can only have one
parent.

A node without parent is referred to as **top-level node**.

Addressing and routing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Addresses map the topology of a control network to unique addresses.

.. image:: ./images/comm_topology.png

Node addresses are structured hierarchically. Each network connection is
allocated a **local address** by the relevant block driver through which
the node is unambiguously identified in the respective network. The node
address is now formed by first appending the index of the subnet (in the
parent) in which the node is located then subsequently the local address
of the main network connection to the address of the parent. A node
without main network is a **top-level** node with address 0. A node with
a main network that does not contain a parent is assigned its local
address in the main network.

Due to the address structure the routing algorithm can be kept
relatively lean. No routing tables are required. The only requirement is
local information about the own address and the address of the parent
node:

-  Target address identical to own address? Current node is receiver

-  Target address starts with own address? Packet is intended for a
       child or descendant of the node. Forward to associated child
       node.

-  Otherwise: Packet is not a descendant of the current node. Forward to
       own parent.

Relative addresses are a special feature. They do not contain the node
number of the receiver node, but directly describe the path from the
sender to the receiver. The principle is similar to a relative path in
the file system: The address is comprised of the number of steps the
packet has to move "up", i.e. to the next respective parent, and the
subsequent path down to the target node.

The advantage of a relative address is that two nodes within the same
sub tree can continue to communicate if the whole subtree is moved to
another position within the overall control network. While the absolute
node addresses change during such a move, the relative addresses are
preserved.

Parallel routing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Parallel routing represents a direct communication mechanism between two
router instances on the same node. It is used when there are at least
two networks on the same node that should not end up in a main net â€“
subnet relationship (E.g. a PC with two network cards on independent
Ethernet segments).

The "ReceiverAdr" (see :ref:`comm_router`) of an incoming packet is screened by
the receiving router instance for a special marker identifying a
parallel router on the same node. If this marker exists, both
"ReceiverAdr " and "SenderAdr" are updated by the receiving router:

-  The existing marker will be removed from the incoming "ReceiverAdr".

-  A new marker will be added to the "SenderAdr" for identifying the
       current router.

If the new "ReceiverAdr" is identical to the address of the parallel
router, the acting node is the correct recipient and the packet will be
handled locally. If not, the packet will directly be sent to the other
network segment to be handled there by a different node.

Address determination
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In order to be able form its own address, each node must know the
address of its parent node or detect that it is a top-level node. To
this end it sends an address determination message as a broadcast to its
main network during bootup. The parent node responds with an address
notification. The node then passes on the modified address to its
subnet. Until it receives a response to the address determination
message the node considers itself to be a top-level node, although it
will continue to try and detect a parent node at suitable intervals.

Address determination can be executed at bootup or when requested by the
programming PC.

Once the address of a node is frozen, no further address determination
is required. An address notification by the parent node with an address
that differs from the stored address should be regarded as a fault.

Address structure
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Network addresses
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Network addresses represent a mapping of the addresses of a network type
(e.g. IP addresses) to a logical address within a control network. This
mapping is handled by the respective block driver. Within an Ethernet
with Class C IP addresses the first 3 bytes of the IP address are
identical for all network devices. The last 8 bits of the IP address
therefore suffice as network address, since they enable unambiguous
mapping between the two addresses at the block driver.

A node has separate network addresses for each network connection.
Different network connections may have the same network address, since
this address only has to be unique locally for each network connection.

**Terminology:** In general, the network address of node without
statement of the network connection refers to the network address in the
main network.

The length of a network address is specified in bits and can be chosen
by the block driver as required. Within a network segment the same
length must be used for all nodes. A network address is represented as
an array of bytes with the following coding:

-  Length of the network address: n bits

-  Required bytes: b = (n + 7) DIV 8

-  The (n MOD 8) lowest-order bits of the first byte and all remaining
       (n DIV 8) bytes are used for the network address.
	   
.. image:: ./images/comm_network_addresses.png


Node addresses
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^       

The node address indicates the absolute address of a node within a
control network and is therefore unique in the whole "tree". It consists
of up to 15 **address components**, each consisting of two bytes. The
lower a node is located within the network hierarchy, the longer its
address.

The node address is comprised of the **partial addresses** of all
predecessors of the node and the node itself. Each partial address
consists of one or several address components. The length is therefore
always a multiple of two. The partial address of a node is formed from
the network address of the node in its main network and the **subnet
index** of the main network in the parent node. The bits required for
the subnet index are determined by the router of the parent node. Filler
bits are inserted between the subnet index and the network address in
order to ensure that the length of the partial address is a multiple of
2 bytes.

Special cases:

-  **Node has no main network:** This means there is no subnet index nor
       a network address in the main network. In this case the address
       is set to 0x0000.

-  **Node with main network but without parent:** In this case a subnet
       index with 0 bit length is assumed. The partial address
       corresponds to the network address, supplemented with filler bits
       if required.

.. image:: ./images/comm_node_addresses.png
	   
The node address representation is always hexadecimal. The individual
address components (two bytes in each case) are separated by a ":"
(colon). The bytes within a component appear sequentially without
separator (see example above). Since this represents a byte array and
not a 16-bit value, the components are **not** displayed in
little-endian format. For manually entered addresses missing digits in
an address component are filled with leading zeros from the left: "274"
= "0274". To improve readability the output should always **include**
the leading zeros.

Absolute and relative addresses
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Communication between two nodes can be based on relative or absolute
addresses. Absolute addresses are identical to node addresses. Relative
addresses specify a path from the sender to the receiver. They consist
of an address offset and a descending path to the receiver.

The (negative) address offset describes the number of address components
that a packet has to be handed upwards in the tree before it can be
handed down again from a common parent. Since nodes can use partial
addresses consisting of more than one address component, the number of
parent nodes to be passed is always = the address offset. This means
that the demarcation between parent nodes is no longer unambiguous,
which is why the common initial part of the addresses of the
communication partners is used as parent address. Each address component
is counted as an upward step, irrespective of the actual parent nodes.
Any errors introduced by these assumptions can be detected by the
respective parent node and must be handled correctly by the node.

On arrival at the common parent the relative path (an array of address
components) is then followed downwards in the normal way.

Formal: The node address of the receiver is formed by removing the last
AdressOffset components from the node address of the sender and
appending the relative path to the remaining address.

Example:

| Node A: a.bc.d.ef.g
| Node B: a.bc.i.j.kl.m
| Address of the lowest common parent: a.bc
| relative address from A to B: -4/i.j.kl.m

To ensure that the routing works correctly, the relative address must be
adjusted with each pass through an intermediate node. It is sufficient
to adjust the address offset. This is **always done by the parent
node**: If a node receives a packet from one of its subnets, the address
offset is increased by the length of the address component of this
subnet. If the new address offset is < 0 the packet must be forwarded to
the parent node. If the address offset >= 0 the packet must be forwarded
to the child node whose local address is located at the position
described by the address offset within the relative address. First, the
address offset must be increased by the length of the local address of
the child node to ensure that the node sees a correct address.

A special case is created by a situation in which the above described
error occurs when the common parent is determined. In this case the
address offset at the "real" common parent is negative, but the
magnitude is greater than the length of the partial address of the
subnet from which the packet originates. The node must detect this case,
calculate the local address of the next child node based on the address
of the previous node and the length difference, and adapt the address
offset such that the next node sees a correct relative address. Here too
the address components themselves remain unchanged, only the address
offset changes.

Broadcast addresses
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

There are two types of broadcast â€“ global and local. A **global
broadcast** is sent to all nodes within a control network. The empty
node address (length 0) is reserved for this purpose.

**Local broadcasts** are sent to all devices of a network segment. For
this purpose, all bits of the network address are set to 1. This is
possible both in relative and in absolute addresses.

A block driver must be able to handle both broadcast addresses, i.e.
empty network addresses and network addresses with all bits set to 1
must be interpreted and sent as broadcast.

