.. _manual_introduction:
.. index:: CODESYS Control

Introduction
============

A runtime system is referred to as the software, that is running on a
system that controls a device or a machine. *CODESYS Control* is here
the product name of the runtime system of CODESYS GmbH.

**CODESYS** is the product name of the complete software family of IEC
61131 programming tools.

**Control** stands for the runtime system to control a machine.

The runtime system CODESYS Control V3 is a completely new development of
3S. It is based on more than 10 years of experience in the automation
technology and is provided for a wide range of operating systems and
processors.

In this document, the runtime system CODESYS Control Version V3 is
declared in detail. With this document we give you all basic information
to start working with it and to understand the internal mechanisms.

Runtime System in the Overall System
------------------------------------

The runtime system is running typically in a PLC (programmable logic
controller). The runtime system is connected via a communication media
to communicate with clients (CODESYS, HMO, OPC-Server, etc.)..

Warning: For security reasons, controllers, specifically, their TCP/IP
programming ports (usually UDP-Ports 1740..1743 and TCP-Ports 1217 +
11740 or the controller specific ports) must not be accessible from the
Internet or untrusted Networks under any circumstances! In case Internet
access is needed, a safe mechanism has to be used, like VPN and password
protection of the controller. When you are going to start CODESYS
Control Win V3 from the systray menu, you will get an appropriate
warning in a dialog box, where you still can cancel the startup.

On the other side, the runtime system is typically connected to the
IO-system (field busses, local IOs) and/or drives of the machine that is
controlled.

.. image:: ./images/system_overview.svg 

Mission of the Runtime System
-----------------------------

The runtime system CODESYS Control provides the following main functions

-  Execution of the IEC application(s), that are created with CODESYS V3

-  Debugging of the IEC application

-  Connection to the IO-system and/or drives

-  Communication with the programming tool CODESYS V3 or another client
   (e.g. HMI)

-  Routing for communication to subordinate runtime systems

-  Runtime system to runtime system communication

